Paris Orly airport shooting: Attacker was 'radicalised Muslim' man known to French intelligence services
Police say same man shot police officer at security checkpoint and hijacked car earlier on Saturday
Lizzie Dearden @lizziedearden Saturday 18 March 2017 12:17 GMT
The man shot dead after attempting to steal a soldier's gun at Paris Orly Airport was a "radicalised Muslim" known to security services.
The 39-year-old shot at police officers manning a checkpoint in northern Paris with an "air pistol" before launching the airport attack, the French interior minister said.
During a visit to the airport, Bruno Le Roux said one officer was shot during the routine check and was undergoing hospital treatment for injuries to his face.
"We can link the [airport attacker's] identity with a check carried out at Garges Les Gonesse by a patrol in Stains this morning at 6.50am (5.50am GMT)," he added.
"The individual's identity is known to the police and intelligence services." His father and brother have been detained for questioning.
The car stopped in Stains was a Renault Clio, which was later abandoned for a Citroen Picasso hijacked at gunpoint in Vitry. The car was found at Orly airport.
A police source described the attacker as "a radicalised Muslim known to intelligence services".
He was on a crime watch list but not France's "fiche S" database of suspected extremists, prosecutors said.
The man attempted to steal a Famas assault rifle from a female soldier on a counter-terror patrol before being killed, Mr Le Roux said, adding that he "did not succeed".
Jean-Yves Le Drian, the French defence minister, said the air force member was thrown to the ground during the assault, adding: "The two other airmen in the patrol opened fire to protect their comrade and protect nearby members of the public.
"They reacted with great professionalism and remarkable composure."
Francois Hollade, the French President, hailed the courage and efficiency of police confronted with "assaults committed by a particularly dangerous" individual.
Terrorism prosecutors have opened an investigation into the attack, which comes after a series of Isis-inspired atrocities across France.
No one else was injured in the airport attack at 8.30am local time (7.30am GMT), which triggered a red alert sent locally via the French government's Saip terror warning system.
“We were waiting in line to check in for a flight to Tel Aviv when we heard three or four gunshots nearby,” 54-year-old Franck Lecam told AFP.“There were police, emergency services, soldiers running in all directions.
“One of the security officials told us it happened near gates 37-38, for Turkish Airlines flights.
A photograph showed the attacker lying dead on the floor outside a bakery chain, wearing black trousers and a white shirt.
The airport was evacuated as security operations continued, with France's national police urging people not to cross the security perimeter.
Bomb squads and armed police were sent into the building to sweep for explosives.
A notice was posted on the Paris airports authority website urging passengers not to travel to Orly, with diversions and delays expected.
Air traffic was suspended at Orly airport's south and west terminals as operations continued.
The attacked soldier was part of Operation Sentinel - a security initiative seeing troops deployed in combat uniforms around high profile sites including the Eiffel Tower since the Charlie Hebdo massacre.
It was the fourth time that troops in the 7,500-strong force have been attacked.
In February, a man wielding a machete attacked four soldiers patrolling at Le Louvre, a year after three petrol members were wounded by a man armed with a knife outside a Jewish community centre in Nice.
In January 2016, a man rammed his car into four soldiers guarding a mosque in the southeastern city of Valence.
France remains on high alert following a string of terror attacks directed and inspired by Isis, which has directed its followers to carry out opportunistic attacks on security forces and civilians in Europe.
A parcel bomb believed to have been sent by Greek anarchists exploded at the International Monetary Fund's offices in Paris on Thursday, on the same day a student opened fire at a school in Grasse.
Ministers said the latest attack showed the importance of France's ongoing state of emergency, which has been extended several times despite human rights concerns raised by the UN.
